Notes for lesson 21 homework: simple CV deployment

Task:
Make a simple computer vision solution and deploy it in one of the described forms:
FastAPI, Flask, or event-driven architecture.

Recommended solution:
Use FastAPI and YOLO object detection on static images.

1. Is YOLO on static images acceptable?

Yes. YOLO object detection on images is a valid simple computer vision solution.
It is clear, easy to demonstrate, and close to the lecture examples.

To make it more like an independent homework solution, it is better to organize it
as a small project with a separate folder, app.py, requirements.txt, README.md,
example input image, result image, and screenshots/logs.

2. What does "deploy" mean here?

In this homework, "deploy" most likely means making the model available through
some interface, not necessarily deploying it to the cloud.

A local FastAPI server is enough:

- start the server;
- send an image to an endpoint;
- get the result back.

This is a deployment in the learning context.

3. What is "Script with code of model deployment in chosen form"?

This is the Python file that starts the API and uses the model.

For example:

- app.py
- main.py

It should contain:

- FastAPI application;
- model loading;
- endpoint for image inference;
- response with the result.

"Chosen form" means the selected deployment approach/framework:

- FastAPI;
- Flask;
- event-driven architecture.

If FastAPI is chosen, then FastAPI is the chosen form.

4. Overview vs Deployment info

Overview:
Short explanation of what the project does.

Example:
This project is a simple object detection API for images using YOLO.
It accepts an image, detects objects, and returns an annotated image.

Deployment info:
Explanation of how the solution is exposed as a service.

Example:
The model is deployed as a local FastAPI application.
The API runs on http://127.0.0.1:8000 and exposes endpoints for image inference.

Difference:

- Overview = what the project does.
- Deployment info = how it is served/run.

5. Installation instruction with requirements.txt

This section should explain:

- how to create/activate a virtual environment;
- how to install dependencies;
- how to run the server;
- how to test the model/API.

Example commands:

python -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn app:app --reload

Example request:

curl -X POST -F "image=@car.jpg" http://127.0.0.1:8000/detect --output result.jpg

6. Modeling info

This section describes the model.

Example:
The solution uses YOLO from the ultralytics package.
The model performs object detection on input images.
The output is an image with detected objects drawn as bounding boxes.

It is better to explicitly mention the weights file if used:

YOLO("yolo11n.pt")

7. Interface description

This is more specific than overview/deployment info.
It describes how a user or another program communicates with the solution.

Example:

POST /detect
Input: image file as multipart/form-data.
Output: annotated JPEG image.
Description: runs object detection and returns the image with bounding boxes.

8. What are endpoints?

Endpoints are API routes, for example:

@app.get("/")
@app.post("/detect")

In documentation they are usually written like:

GET /
POST /detect

9. What are event handlers?

Event handlers are functions that react to events.

Examples:

- a new file appears in a folder;
- a message arrives in Kafka;
- a WebSocket message is received;
- some background event happens.

If the solution uses FastAPI with normal HTTP endpoints, event handlers are not
needed for this homework.

10. Input and output

This means what each endpoint accepts and returns.

Example:

Input:
Image file in JPG or PNG format, sent as multipart/form-data field named "image".

Output:
JPEG image with bounding boxes around detected objects.

The curl command is only an example of how to send the input.

11. Short description of functionality

This is a short explanation for each endpoint.

Example:

GET /health
Checks whether the API is running.

POST /detect
Accepts an image, runs YOLO object detection, and returns an annotated image.

This may repeat the overview a little, but here the explanation is attached to
specific endpoints.

12. Example of processes: screenshots or logs

Yes, it means showing evidence that the solution works.

Good examples:

- screenshot of Swagger /docs with the endpoint;
- screenshot of terminal with curl request;
- screenshot or saved output image with detections;
- server logs showing the POST request;
- before/after image example.

Suggested project structure:

lesson_21_api/homework_cv_api/
  app.py
  requirements.txt
  README.md
  examples/
    car.jpg
    result.jpg
  screenshots/
    swagger.png
    curl_request.png

Suggested API:

GET /health
Returns server status.

POST /detect
Accepts an image and returns an annotated image with detected objects.

Summary:
For this homework, a FastAPI YOLO image detection API is a good and appropriate
solution. It is simple, matches the lecture material, and satisfies the evaluation
criteria if it includes code, README, requirements.txt, and screenshots/logs.
